Hello friends in this video to see how to perform
deletion here
In deletion
We simply search for the value to be deleted and
make that index value equal to minus one
So we have a function del here which takes the
value to be deleted and we have this hash table
Let's delete five first so value equal to five
And by our hash function five should have been stored
in index five mod five which is equal to zero
So just copy to index and check If index zero
has the value
Five
So just as we did an insertion we can use
while loop with condition arr of index
not equal to value and if it is equal to
value simply make it minus one and otherwise we have
to check in the next index
This is so here arr of index equal to 10
and not equal to five
So the while condition is satisfied so we find the
next index that is index plus one mod size that
is zero plus one mod five that is one mod
five equal to one and check if it is equal
to key and it is not so If fails and
this iteration is completed now in the next iteration
Checked the while condition and we have arr of one
equal to 15 and not our value
Five
So again while is true
So find the new index and we have index equal
to index plus one mod size that is one plus one
mod five that is two mod five equal to two
now check If it is equal to key and it is
not so
If fails here and this iteration is completed now in
the next iteration checked the while condition and we have
a r r of two equal to two and not
our value
Five
So again while is true that is five
is not present in this index
Also
So find the new index and we have index equal
to index plus one mod size
That is two plus one mod five that is three
mod five equal to three now check If it is
equal to key and it is not so if fails here
and this iteration is completed
now in The next iteration checked the while condition and we
have arr of three equal to value that is five
that is value to be deleted is found at index
three
So while fails here and we can set arr of
index equal to minus one that is the index three
is now available for further insertion so the deletion is
successful
So return one now let us delete 50 from this hash table
so value equalled to 50 and by our hash function
for 50 should've been stored in index 15
mod five which is equal to zero so just copy it
zero to index and check if index zero has the
value 50 and arr of index equal to 10 and
not value 50
So the while condition is satisfied here and we have
to find the next index that is index plus one
mod size that is zero plus one mod five
That is one mod five equal to one and check
if it is equal to key and it is not
so
If fails and the iteration is completed now in the
next iteration checked the while condition and we have arr
of one equal to 15 and not our value 50
So again while condition is satisfied which means 50 is
not present in this index so find a new index
and we have index equal to index plus one mod
size that is one plus one mod five that is
two mod five equal to two and check if it
is equal to key and it is not so
If fails and this iteration is completed now in the
next iteration checked the while condition and we have arr
of two equal to two and not our value
So again the condition is satisfied
That is 50 is not present in this index
Also so find the new index and we have index
equal two plus one mod five that is
three mod five equal to three and check if it
is equal to key and it is not so
If fails and this iteration is completed now in the
next iteration checked the while condition and we have arr
of three is equal to minus one and not our
value
So again while is true 50 is not present
in this index to so finding new index and we have
index equal to index plus one mod size
That is three plus one mod five equal to four mod
five equal to four and check if it is equal
to key and it is not so
If fails and this iteration is completed now in
the next iteration checked the while condition and we have
arr of four equal to four and not our value
So again while is true that is fifty's not present
in index for also
So find the new index and we have index
equal to four plus one mod five which is
five mod five equal to zero and check if it
is equal to key
And it is that is we search from index zero
till we reached index zero again and we did
not find 50 which means it is not present in
this hash table
So deletion is not possible
So written zero since the deletion was unsuccessful
So we learnt how insertion and deletion can be performed.